---
title: 'Blog Post number 1'
date: 2025-06-27
permalink: /posts/2025/06/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - category theory
  - integrable systems
  - mathematical physics
  - Ward's conjecture
  - Fukaya category
  - Mirror symmetry
  - Spectral curve
  - nonlinear PDEs
---
$$ x^2+y^2=z^2 $$

What is an integrable system? Non-precisely, it's a system which is exactly solvable. How you define that mathematically, depends upon which framework you are working in. Given that, you may question reasonably, how can different frameworks give the same answer? The short answer is a mathematical topic called duality. They are dual, in some abstract way. In integrable systems, or better-said now, exactly solvable systems, the two frameworks are symplectic geometry, or algebraic geometric methods. Essentially all of the frameworks toward integrability fall into one of those frameworks, even if not in a straightforward way. 

In this "blog", there's a couple sub-frameworks we'll focus on. The first is, symplectic geometry. To a physicist this means using the geometric methods from classical mechanics, and some from quantum mechanics. To a mathematician, this means studying the properties of rather-specific symplectic manifolds. Another framework is lesser-known perhaps, though it is gaining popularity: Lagrangian multiforms. This framework uses, essentially, mathematical analysis to talk about integrable systems, though if you dig deep enough it is symplectic geometry in disguise. Lastly, the other framework we will mention, not really use, primarly due to it's natural abstractness, is algebraic geometry. The duality between these frameworks is known as mirror symmetry, and is literally, in full generality, a duality between symplectic and algebraic geometry. It is often phrased in far more precise ways, but essentially thats the jist of what we will be looking into. If you don't know these topics yet, don't worry, as just being honest I don't have formal training in pure mathematics, let alone topics like category theory and algebraic geometry.

Speaking of category theory, you may be wondering where that will come in. Without diving into specifics too much, consider an example. Suppose you have some boxes. Cardboard boxes. You have a bunch of toys, or maybe tools. You label the boxes and put the toys into the different boxes. Now each box separates the tools into which "category" they are, and organizes things well. From a more physical perspective, you could also imagine dissassembling the toys, or tools, into their atoms. At that point, the categories kind-of morph into eachother, and you're left with just "atom" categories. That's essentially what we'll use category theory for. Specifically, we'll look at the symplectic geometry of integrable systems. I'll do my best to argue why perhaps most, if not all, integrable systems have this type of categorification, via a mathematical topic called "foliation", which is essentially how we organize things in real life: organize them into piles, or a pile. That won't be enough though, since it's very difficult to work with categories of symplectic geometry. You have to use an intimidatingly abstract theory called Floer theory, which is still being actively researched in symplectic geometry/topology. So rather than do that, we'll look at the mirror dual (the other framework). Under the mirror dual, which to be clear isn't proven in full generality (yet, but close), we will talk about categories of spectral curves (Riemann surfaces) which algebraically encode the integrable system. Admittely, this won't be so much better than Floer theory, but it is far more intuitive, especially if you think analytically. 

Okay enough talking about what we will use to talk about what we will do, here's what will actually go down. I will do my best to convince you, or better yet demonstrate, that some (we'll discuss some more precisely later) integrable systems, admit a natural category theory interpretation, through Fukaya categories. I'll then argue that, by investigating a theorem from Twistor theory from Professor Richard Ward, called "Ward's conjecture", we can, under some (potentially reasonable) assumptions, find that whole classes of integrable systems (the some) "unify" (in the same way that we categorized tools into their atoms). We'll discuss some category theory and why precisely a categorification of Ward's conjecture is useful, and it's applications. There will be some details, but overall thats it. 

If that sounds interesting to you, please read on. If not, that is understandable. I hope you may find the other blog posts to your interest. Not all of them are this mathematical physics-y. 

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
